The amount of information and data that are becoming available to us is growing exponentially. As the amount of available data grows, so is our need to understand it
Statistics is the science of learning from data and data professionals develop the skills needed to analyze data and to communicate their findings.
Broadly, there are three main reasons why statistical literacy is essential in data science.
First, it provides the skills to assess whether the data are sufficient to answer the questions at hand.
Second, it establishes a rigorous framework for quantifying uncertainty.
And finally, it provides techniques for effectively communicating the findings of your analyses.

* Descriptive statistics.
That is, ways to summarize data with numbers and graphs. This is important because most people prefer to look at figures, rather than at numbers.
So, it's best to communicate information with figures whenever possible
The two most important functions are to communicate information, and to support reasoning about the data. 
Which description to choose will depend on the nature of the data and the goal of the visualization for a certain problem.
Qualitative data : pie chart / Dot plot -  data that is not numbers but categories
Quantitative data: Bar graph, histogram  - data that should be put to number line
Histogram tells about density of the data and we can find % of sample using the viz. using area = h x w; height of block on y axis and length on x axis and its accounts for %age.
Box and whisker plot: finds 5 key values of data- lower, upper, and median and 1st and 3rd quartile >> 5 number summary
(each group has its own box plot)
Scatter plot - data that comes in pairs(education and income) visualize relationship in 2 variables.
* Providing Context in very important for statistical analyses while comparing the observed data to reference. We need it for graphical intergrity(information).
Using principle of small multiples for providing information using figures or plots that help user decode more information.

* Statistical Numerical Measures
Mean - average
median - central tendency(midpoint)
Mean anad median is same when histogram is symmetric
skewness of graph needs to be checked before using and mean median values. 
Stdand Deviation >> xbar = avg(x1, x2,...xn) and std D = sqrt(1/n * sum(xi - xbar)sqred)
it looks at the difference of each number from its average, squares the difference, and then looks at the average of those squared differences. And finally, it takes the square root.


